# mjmech geometry #

## Unit naming conventions ##

Quantities expressed in a certain unit should have that unit included
as a suffix that variable name.

## Frame naming conventions ##

Quantities which are expressed relative to some frame or frames have those frames suffixed on the variable name using the simbody conventions :https://simtk.org/docman/view.php/47/231/SimbodyTheoryManual.pdf

As there, common frames may be abbreviated with a single uppercase
letter.

## Frame conventions ##

Coordinate systems are right handed, if there is a human associated
direction, they should be interpreted as:

* x is positive forward
* y is positive right
* z is positive down

## Common frames ##

Joint Frame (J): Each joint has a frame located at the center of
rotation of the shoulder, with +x facing outward, +y facing right, +z
facing down.

Leg Frame (G): The leg frame is located at the center of the shoulder
joint, with +x facing forward, +y facing right, and +z facing down.

Body Frame (B): This frame is oriented at the center of the quadruped
body and fixed to the chassis.

CoM Frame (M): This frame is fixed to the chassis at the center of
mass as measured with the legs in idle position.  It is oriented to be
level with the ground, so +Z is always down w.r.t. gravity.  The frame
has a yaw such that +X is pointed to same heading as Body +X.

Attitude Frame (A): This frame is fixed to the chassis center of mass.
+Z is down w.r.t. gravity.  The rotation of +X/+Y is arbitrary at
power up, and follows the rotation of the B/L transform.

Robot Frame (R): This frame is offset from the Body Frame (B) and
referenced in the same manner, but may be offset or rotated to apply
cosmetic kinematic changes.

Terrain Frame (T): This frame is located at the center of mass,
projected along the body Z direction at the ground location.  It is
oriented parallel to the local ground terrain and rotated to be
consistent with the M frame.

Local Frame (L): This frame is oriented such that down is parallel to
gravity.  Other degrees of freedom are initialized with the quadrupeds
body center at turn on, and have no absolute correlation with the
outside world.
